We just created our MongoDB instance, which is great.
So now we need to make sure that our auth service actually connects to it before we do so.
However, I want to give you a very quick little note right now.
We have created a deployment that creates a pod that is going to run our MongoDB instance.
We haven't really spoken about the lifecycle of pods in Kubernetes yet, but suffice it to say, if
we ever delete or restart the pod that is running MongoDB, then we're going to lose all the data that
is loaded into our database.
We're going to come back and fix this up at a later section.
We're going to would discuss why we're losing this data and we're going to figure out some way to solve
it and give MongoDB some persistent storage.
But right now, I really just want to focus on the authentication side of things.
All right.
So let's go back over to our editor.
We're going to find our service.
Inside there, we'll find our index file, not jazz us.
And we're just going to add in a little bit of code to reach out to MongoDB and connect to it using
Mongoose.
Now I kind of threw in Mongoose in the last video.
I mentioned it without really saying anything about what Mongoose is.
If you're here in this course, I'm going to kind of assume that you've got a reasonable idea of what
Mongoose is.
It is a library that we use to get access to MongoDB and work with data inside of it.
If you are not at all familiar with Mongoose, then we're going to kind of just say, All right, that's
life.
Just go ahead and copy the code that we write and hopefully you learn something along the way.
We're not going to go too deep into the world of mongoose because it is kind of far removed from this
whole idea of microservices.
All right, so inside of index at the top, let's import Mongoose.
From Mongoose.
You'll notice right away that we've got an air tied to Mongoose.
If we hover over that air, it tells us, Hey, TypeScript doesn't know anything about this mongoose
library.
So to solve that, it wants us to install a type definition file so that TypeScript understands what
is going on inside this library.
To do so, we'll run the command that you see right there.
So back at my terminal, inside of my off sub project once again.
I'll run that command.
Now, if I flip back over, air goes away.
All right, well, that's good.
Now that we've got Mongoose inside of this file, we're going to use Mongoose to connect to that MongoDB
instance.
There are many different ways that we can connect to a Mongo instance using Mongoose.
We're going to do so by using the async await syntax.
Let me show you how.
At the very bottom of the file.
I'm going to find where we have got that A-plus in line.
Right above that line, I'm going to create a new function called START.
Or start up.
I want to start.
Keep it simple.
I'm going to mark this function as being async.
And then inside of here I will write out a weight.
Magus Connect.
The first argument to connect is going to be a connection URL.
So this is going to be the actual URL of the MongoDB instance that we need to connect to.
So right now we're just going to write out the URL directly inside of here.
Usually if we are running or connecting to a mongo instance that is on our local machine, it would
be something very simple like MongoDB all in slash slash local host.
But in our case, we are not really connecting to a MongoDB instance that is available on local host
and instead it is available inside of this other pod over here.
And remember, it's you connect to that other pod.
We have to go through that cluster IP service we had created.
Any time we are trying to connect to a cluster IP service, we're going to write in the name of that
cluster IP service where we would normally put a domain.
So if we need a reminder, we could always go back to the infra red directory and then open up the auth
mongo deployment file.
And then go down to our service.
Our service for the MongoDB instance has a name of auth Mongo Savi.
So that is the domain name that we are going to attempt to connect to to get to our MongoDB database.
So in other words, we will write out Mongoose Connect, then still have that MongoDB colon slash slash
and then right there instead of local host, we will put auth mongo crv.
After that, we will then add in the port.
To the very end, which is 2701 seven.
We are using the default port.
And then we could put on the name of the actual database inside of there that we want to connect to.
If we make up a name right here, MongoDB or Mongoose will create the database for us automatically.
We're going to create a new database inside of here called off.
After that, we're going to put in an options object and we're going to throw a couple of options inside
of here.
We'll say use new URL parser.
True.
Use Unified.
Topology.
True.
And use create index of true.
These options are not super relevant.
They are just configuration options for mongoose.
Really, the only reason we are putting them inside of here is that if we don't, Mongoose is going
to start to throw a couple of warnings and errors at us.
All right.
So that's it for our Connect statement.
Now, this is going to hold up or it's going to wait for the connection.
If we fail to connect for any reason, then this line is going to throw an air.
Let's try to capture that error that might be thrown and console.log it or do something like that.
Just so you and I are aware, if our service fails to connect to MongoDB.
So I'm going to wrap that with a try.
And so if something goes wrong and we end up with that error right there, we'll do a console dot error.
And log out that air.
All right.
So if we get past this tri catch statement successfully, then it is probably time for us to actually
start listening for traffic.
So I'm going to take the list in line right here, take that whole thing.
I'm going to cut it and put it right in after the trai catch.
So you'll notice that we've now got a single function called START that is going to first try to connect
to our database.
If it's successfully connects, fantastic.
That's great.
If it fails to, then we're going to log the error that just occurred.
And then after all that, we'll start to listen for incoming traffic.
The reason that we define this separate function of START is that depending upon the version of Node
that you are running, you have to wrap all of your async await code inside of a function.
The latest version of Node can make use of the awake keyword at the top level.
So in other words, outside of a function.
But you might be using a version of node that does not support this.
Or to be more precise, the node image that you are downloading to use inside of your cluster might
not be the latest version.
So that's why we're just defining that extra function, just so we can use async await.
After we define that function, well, then call it right there.
So when our application first starts up, just go ahead and run that start function.
Do the connection.
Start listening to traffic.
All right, so let's save this flight back over to our terminal where we are running scaffold and see
how we are doing.
All right.
Well, it looks like everything is going as expected, so I still have a listing on Port 3000 right
here.
I don't have any errors around connecting to Mongo.
But just to make sure that we are actually running the correct code here.
How about right after we do this connect statement?
We just do a quick console log right here that says something like Connected to MongoDB.
So we'll save that as well.
Flip back over.
Yep.
Looks good.
All right.
So we've now got our MongoDB instance up and running and our authentication application has connected
to it.
So now that we've got this ability to store some information, let's talk about how we're going to create
users and store them inside this database in the next video.